Ontario, Canada, and ere he was twelve years old, the
Johnson Smith mail order catalog arrived, packed in small
type with a wonderland of household and shop gadgets and
all the gaudy allurements of Fourth of July celebrations,
Halloween pranks and carnival entertainment, including
that amazing section on Magic that first opened the door to
the satisfaction of that 'glorious curiosity in the impossible.'
Bobo's father operated a restaurant in Windsor, Canada,
across the river from Detroit, and Saturday nights found
the young Bobo crossing on the ferry to witness the
wonderments of Laurant, The Great Leon and Thurston,
though he never saw Houdini. The restaurant was a
rendezvous too for show people and drummers who
displayed the wit and gags of the road, including such
'startlers' as the paper balls under the hat which young
Bobo added to his rapidly expanding repertoire.
"My first performance was at an amateur show at the
Windsor Theater," writes Bobo, "and if memory hasn't
failed me, I got the hook, I was so scared." But persistency
prevailed and skills improved thanks to the arrival of The
Tarbell Course at the age of sixteen. "The Course taught
me my first real magic, for with the Course came a metal
box beneath whose padlock were contained the essential
gimmicks of a new world of wonders, the thumb tip, the
wand shell and the pull, and numerous other shortcuts to
the supernatural."
High school days were over, the family had returned to
Texas and a career had to be entered, which happened to
be as a carpenter at the bench, making kitchen cabinets
for a dollar a day. It was a princely income, and it went for
magic. After two years Bobo had learned that his eyes
were worth more than his hands and he became a free
lance window display decorator, splashing merchandise
Bobo's Coin Magic
Presented by www.learnmagictricks.org
Page 14weekly in a hardware store, a department store and nine
windows for the J. C. Penney Company. He was also
booked as 'The Great Bobo' at churches, schools and
charity dates for his standard minimum fee of three dollars
a show. Fancy apparatus was too expensive, and Bobo
depended upon sleight of hand with cards, thimbles and
coins, and closed with a handcuff escape, the Bean cuffs.
Experience as a window display showman as well as the
church and school dates soon led to club dates, and here
the price jumped to five dollars per show, "which was a lot
of money in those days." The extra income could mean
only one thing: 'Illusions' must be added to the show, and
so Sawing a Woman In Two was papered all over town. He
faithfully pursued The Tarbell Course as the lessons came
month by month, practicing two hours a day on each
lesson for six months to perfect a routine before presenting
it.
And then the big break came, his reward for years of
patience and persistency, his first contract for a lyceum
booking. On the recommendation of Percy Abbott, the
magic manufacturer of Colon, Michigan, Bobo was accepted
as a substitute for Harold Sterling and went on the road for
one hundred and twenty-five dollars a week. He was out
for the fall season, September to December, in the Rocky
Mountain region for The Grapham Music ge Lyceum
Bureau, giving school and college shows throughout
Colorado, Wyoming, Montana and Idaho. The school
houses were so small it was known as the 'Kerosene Lamp'
circuit. A charming assistant was now added to the
performance who was soon transformed into Mrs. Bobo.
Bobo's schedule now is thirty-five weeks a year. He says
his steady booking is a simple system. "If whistle stops
Bobo's Coin Magic
Presented by www.learnmagictricks.org
Page 15want magic, I give it to them at a smaller fee, as the
jumps are short and booking is continuous." He has
learned in his close-up experience in the smaller school
and college auditoriums that this type of audience
appreciates a sleight of hand show over an apparatus show
because they know that the latter type show means 'trick
boxes.' Then, too, there are other advantages in playing
the smaller towns. Lyceum and school audiences are of a
higher intelligence and appreciate a more cultured show,
where success is not dependent upon wisecracks or
doubtful humor to get laughs.
Bobo's interest in coin magic began when a medicine-show
magician taught him The Sympathetic Coins, with pennies.
That was long ago-soon after he had acquired proficiency
in presenting The Unbreakable Match. Sleight of hand
always fascinated him--probably because, as he explains,
"I am one of those fellows who enjoys working with his
hands--learning crafts and skills that require delicacy of
touch
challenges
me.
Painting,
cabinet
making,
photography -even just 'making things'--provide my chief
sources of enjoyment. Coin magic requires skill, but no
magic appears so spontaneous, so "spur-of-the-moment"
to an audience. Coin tricks are of a visual nature--they are
"sight tricks" and audiences like tricks that require little
concentration. Money always fascinates people, and magic
with money is doubly fascinating. Even the jingle and
clinking together of coins is fascinating. Our shows always
feature coin tricks. People admire and appreciate skill-coin
magic impresses them as magic requiring skill."
"Bobo has extraordinary qualifications for the task of
producing a book on coin magic," says John Mulholland,
Editor of The Sphinx. "He has a canny understanding of the
magic the public likes and he selects only such effects for
Bobo's Coin Magic
Presented by www.learnmagictricks.org
Page 16his performances as have genuine appeal. His high
reputation as a professional magician has been earned by
his delightfully entertaining performances. Both his
mastery of magic and his knowledge of audiences he
brings into the field of coin magic which long has been his
favorite branch of trickery. Mysteries with coins have
intrigued him for many years and he has spew. a great
deal of time and enthusiastic energy collecting, devising,
and mastering coin tricks."
This book is the result of Bobo's fascination with the magic
of coins. The tricks have been gathered, mastered, tested,
catalogued, and filed away like a collection of precious
stones, and it has taken many years to get this collection
together. Here are superb examples of the art of pure
sleight of hand--magic with coins--and magicians the world
over will be grateful to Bobo for presenting to the fraternity
his splendid collection of coin tricks.
Bobo's Coin Magic
Presented by www.learnmagictricks.org
Page 17